chore: Add logging docs (DRAFT) (#1)
ptang-nr/docs-website: src/content/docs/browser/browser-monitoring/browser-pro-features/auto-logging.mdx

---

> title: "Auto logging"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Automatically detect browser logs"
```

metaDescription: "Get a more complete picture of your front-end application"
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-11-18
---

Auto logging collects log messages issued from the browser `console` to help you maximize observability of your front-end applications.

Browser logs are tracked by default for Pro and Pro+SPA agents, but unavailable for the Lite browser agent. We recommend that you first confirm you're using the Pro or Pro+SPA agent.  See [Getting Started](#get-started).

## How browser auto-logging works [#how-it-works]

> Based on logging levels and sampling rates set in the configuration, auto-logging may collect messages from the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on logging levels and sampling rates set in the configuration, auto-instrumentation of browser logs will attempt to collect messages from the following methods:
```

- `console.error`
- `console.warn`
- `console.info`
- `console.log` (this will be treated the same as `INFO` level)
- `console.debug`

> - `console.trace`

Reviewer: this might benefit from being shown as a table of the console method and the log level that is captured.

method | level
console.error | 'ERROR' 

etc.

> Data passed through the console methods may go through deserialization and obfuscation.  Depending on the size and frequency, this may negatively impact application performance as well as data costs.  In general, it is NOT recommended to pass in large objects or large amounts of data into console methods.

Author: Took a stab at impressing upon our customer not to log large objects here.

> Data passed through the console methods may go through deserialization and obfuscation.  Depending on the size and frequency, this may negatively impact application performance as well as data costs.  In general, it is NOT recommended to pass in large objects or large amounts of data into console methods.

Reviewer: Can you add the `callout variant="important"` tag around this

> By default, browser event data is stored for 8 days, but actual data retention depends on your account.

Reviewer: This stores `log` data, not browser data.  May need to check what the retention is for that

Author: Fixed, good call!

## Get started [#get-started]

<Steps>
  <Step>

>     ### Enable auto logging [#enable-configure-settings]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ### Enable automatic log collection [#enable-configure-settings]
```

    1. Go to <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > All Capabilities > Browser**</DNT>.
    2. Select your browser app.
    3. In the left-hand menu, click  <DNT>**Application settings**</DNT>.

>     4. On the Application settings page, make sure <DNT>**Pro**</DNT> or <DNT>**Pro + SPA**</DNT> browser agent is selected. Auto logging is not available for the Lite browser agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. On the Application settings page, make sure <DNT>**Pro**</DNT> or <DNT>**Pro + SPA**</DNT> browser agent is selected. Automatic log detection is not available for the Lite browser agent.
```

>     5. Toggle ON <DNT>**Auto logging**</DNT> settings.

Author: The label here is a guess right now

  </Step>

  <Step>
    ### Configure sampling rates [#configure-sampling-rates]

>     Set a sampling rate (0%-100%) for the following samples:

Author: IIRC/UC, there's only a sampling rate for logging?

    * <DNT>**User sessions**</DNT> records a random sample of all user sessions.

      For example, if you set the session sampling rate to 50%, it means that:

    * Half of all user sessions will automatically collect log events.
  </Step>

  <Step>
    ### View log events [#view-events]

>     You can find logging data in two places:

Author: Also took an educated guess here and borrowed the content from Logs and User Actions.  One thing i wasn't sure if it'll be confusing for users is Logs have their own obfuscation rules, which I guess is _not_ connected at all to the browser one and vice versa 🤔

Reviewer: The data just passes through the log API.  Might be worth linking to that if there are some docs out there

Author: ok, I'm adding a link to browser obfuscation where we mentioned obfuscation in the callout under "how-it-works".  Lmk if you were thinking of something else.

    * On the <DNT>**Logs**</DNT> page:
    
      1. Go to: <DNT>**[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Logs**</DNT>. For details on what you can do in the UI, see [Logs UI](/docs/logs/ui-data/use-logs-ui).

         You can also query the `Log` data type. Here's a simple example NRQL query:

        ```sql
        SELECT * FROM Log
        ```

        You can also use NerdGraph, our GraphQL-format API to [query data](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-nrql-tutorial), or to [configure log management](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-log-parsing-rules-tutorial).

    * On the <DNT>**Errors inbox**</DNT> page:

      1. In the left-hand browser menu, click <DNT>**Errors**</DNT>.
      2. Click on the <DNT>**Triage**</DNT> and <DNT>**Group errors**</DNT> pages to see logs attached to errors.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Data consumption [#data-consumption]

Logs follow the same consumption pricing as your other browser bytes. The amount of bytes produced depends on the count and length of messages.

> With the auto logging feature, it is no longer required to invoke the browser APIs `newrelic.log` or `newrelic.wrapLogger` to capture browser logs.  Those methods will continue to work, but it's not advisable to have both as duplicate log messages will incur additional data consumption.

Reviewer: Should double check this.  I think the browser agent will prevent the methods from being double wrapped.  That said, it will honor the first wrapper (which should be our internal wrapping), meaning the default `level` would be applied instead of any custom `level` set by the customer when double implemented.  It is best to avoid the double wrapping altogether when possible

Author: I was mistakenly thinking of the example where we wrapped `loggers` but that doesn't really make a lot of sense here 😵 

Double-checked when we have both (auto + explicit wrapping around `console`), the auto logging "wins" and there're no data duplication.  However, I do seem to lose the custom attributes with auto logging.  Is this an expected behavior or a missing behavior?

Author: Closing this as we've updated the behavior such that wrappers will be able to update the custom attributes.

(Edit: will rephrase

> With the auto logging feature, it is no longer required to invoke the browser APIs `newrelic.log` or `newrelic.wrapLogger` to capture browser logs. Those methods will continue to work, but it's not advisable to have both as duplicate log messages will incur additional data consumption.

to "The auto logging feature eliminates the need to call the `newrelic.log` or `newrelic.wrapLogger` browser APIs, except when adding custom attributes to logging events."
